Create "How to write – Quick Start" page (#12945)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/contributing/approach/sdk-docs/write-quick-start.mdx

---
title: How to Write - Quick Start
noindex: true
sidebar_order: 25
---

> We're transitioning from [Getting Started guides](/contributing/approach/sdk-docs/write-getting-started/) to Quick Start Guides. New SDKs should use the Quick Start guide format outlined on this page. This change is still in progress, so you may still encounter Getting Started guides for existing SDKs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New SDKs should use the Quick Start guide format outlined on this page. You may still encounter Getting Started guides for existing SDKs.
```

> We're transitioning from [Getting Started guides](/contributing/approach/sdk-docs/write-getting-started/) to Quick Start Guides. New SDKs should use the Quick Start guide format outlined on this page. This change is still in progress, so you may still encounter "Getting Started" guides in existing SDKs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We're transitioning from [Getting Started guides](/contributing/approach/sdk-docs/write-getting-started/) to Quick Start Guides. New SDKs should use the Quick Start guide format outlined on this page. This change is still in progress, so you may still encounter Getting Started guides for existing SDKs.
```

<Alert type="info" title="Note">
  For existing Getting Started guides, refer to [How to Write - Getting

>   Started](/contributing/approach/sdk-docs/write-getting-started/). For example,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Started](/contributing/approach/sdk-docs/write-getting-started/). 
```

>   when you want to update a guide without changing it into a Quick Start guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

  If you're unsure what kind of guide you're looking at, ask a question by

>   opening an issue in GitHub.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  [opening an issue in GitHub](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/issues/new/choose).
```

</Alert>

<Expandable type="info" title="Why the change?">

> This change stems from our commitment to following best practices in documentation and making it easier for everyone to create and use our guides.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This change stems from our commitment to following best practices and making our docs as accessible as possible.
```

> With the new Quick Start guides, we want to provide a more structured and focused approach, helping writers create valuable content with confidence, ultimately assisting customers in reaching their goals with Sentry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the new Quick Start guides, we want to provide a more structured and focused approach, helping writers create valuable content with confidence, ultimately assisting users in reaching their goals with Sentry.
```

**Quick Start vs. Getting Started:**
| | Quick Start | Getting Started |
| -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Focus** | Goal-oriented, immediate action, minimal steps | Learning-oriented, broader concepts, background information |

> | **Content** | Describes critical steps and doesn't explain much about how and why | More explanatory and provides background information |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Content** | Highlights critical steps with less focus on the how and why | More explanatory and provides background information |
```

| **Audience** | Developers who want to get started quickly | Developers seeking a deeper understanding |
| **Format** | Single page; Concise | Often spans multiple pages; Comprehensive |

</Expandable>

Our Quick Start guides aim to:

> - Enable developer to quickly set up Sentry with features such as Error Monitoring, Tracing, and Session Replay

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Enable developers to quickly onboard Sentry with features such as Error Monitoring, Tracing, and Session Replay
```

- Keep instructions concise by avoiding unnecessary explanations or background information
- Focus on action by including code examples and commands

> - Achieve a functional Sentry setup with visible results in a customer's Sentry project

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Achieve a functional Sentry setup with visible results in a user's Sentry project
```

- **Configuration** [`/platform-includes/getting-started-config/`](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/tree/master/platform-includes/getting-started-config)
- **Verify** [`/src/platform-includes/getting-started-verify/`](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/tree/master/platform-includes/getting-started-verify)

Integrate this content into your guide using the `PlatformSection` component.

<Alert type="info">
  If the SDK supports performance monitoring, add it to the list that links back
  into the SDK content from Product, stored in
  [`/docs/product/insights/getting-started.mdx`](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/blob/master/docs/product/insights/getting-started.mdx).
</Alert>

## Additional Requirements for Our Wizard

The Quick Start content is also used by our in-app onboarding wizard to get users up and running with Sentry. Keeping all content up to date is critical.

Important:

- If you update the code samples for an SDK, also update the wizard
- If you add something new, such as additional configuration, to the wizard also update the manual setup guide

### Update the Wizard

> The in-app wizard is where developers first implement our SDKs. It's not a simple copy/paste from the Quick Start for two reasons:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The in-app wizard is where developers first integrate our SDKs. It's not a simple copy/paste from the Quick Start for two reasons:
```

1. New users lack the context that our Docs provide (think of it this way, there's no left-hand sidebar to review).
2. Experienced users likely have alerts and so forth turned off, so don't expect one clear workflow. Also, don't review the workflow. Point users to the product for a tour.

> As a result, a simple copy/paste of the Quick Start won't suffice. See the JavaScript wizard as an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, a simple copy/paste of the Quick Start won't suffice. See the JavaScript wizard as an example.
```
```suggestion
As a result, a simple copy/paste of the Quick Start won't suffice. See the Next.js wizard as an example.
```
Not sure if you wanted to link this one?

Author: 👍 Added a link: https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-wizard/tree/master/src/nextjs
